Even once you've mastered the built-in reports and
dashboards that Google Analytics offers,
you will run into situations where you just can't find the right
visual to drive home the impact of a discovery you've just made.
You may find yourself being asked to
present data to a different audience than you have in the past.
Maybe an audience that's more or less
technical than the team members you're used to connecting with.
Or maybe, you really want to wow,
one of your clients by providing them a dashboard and reports,
with custom branded components,
like their unique logo and brand colors.
You've got options for these situations.
Because in addition to the features offered in Google Analytics,
Google also offers a dedicated product designed to help you
generate and present data in visually interesting and appealing ways.
That product is Data Studio.
It provides tremendous flexibility to design and
generate live data through reports and dashboards.
In this lesson, you'll learn how to connect the data source and data studio,
use it to populate various types of charts,
and swap views for your Google Analytics.
We'll also cover the advantages and drawbacks of
dashboarding in Google Analytics and Data Studio.
So, you'll have a good understanding of when to use which tool.
It might sound a bit overwhelming, but don't worry.
Once you've connected a Google Analytics data source to Data Studio,
which we'll cover next,
the interface makes it easy for you to proceed
regardless of how much experience you do or don't have.
There are multiple options to spark your creativity,
including, starting a new report from scratch on a clean white background,
using or adopting one of the templates provided,
and even looking at reports in a gallery where other users have uploaded their works.
Of course, once you've created a masterpiece that communicates just the way you want to,
you're not going to want anyone felling it up.
Right? Google has you covered.
Because your reports and dashboards,
can be shared with others with varying levels of permission.
Sometimes, you'll want to grant users only the option to view your reports,
but other times you want to empower users with the option to engage the data,
maybe by altering a date range including
a custom dimension or applying a filter or segment.
You'll be able to accomplish all of this and more.
Next, we'll get started by connecting
a data source to provide the data for your reports and dashboards.
Before we do that, just a quick note about something.
You'll notice that Google refers to Data Studio as being in beta,
don't let that concern you.
It has more to do with ongoing development
at upgrades that are constantly being pushed out,
rather than to a level of incompleteness or a lack of polish.
Remember how long Google considered Gmail as being in beta,
it's a similar thing with Data Studio.
You may even see some features tagged with a little red label that says labs.
Just like in the old gmail beta,
these are the newest features under development.
There are also other ways to see what's new,
that we'll also get into shortly.